DOCC Admin and User Guides (#3644)
mattermost/docs: source/administration/devops-command-center.rst

- Start Date
- End Date, if ended, otherwise **--**
- Commander

Viewing incident details
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To view details of active incidents, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu, or **!** in the channel header to open the RHS panel.

Listed incidents include the following information:

- The current commander’s profile picture and username
- Zero or more checklist items
- The channels associated with the incident
- A button to end the incident

If the incident is active, but in a private channel, you won't be able to see the incident channel name or select **End Incident**. However, the commander name and incident checklist are displayed. If you're a participant in an incident channel, you can modify incident details from within that channel.

You can view all incidents in the incident Backstage via **Main Menu > Incidents & Playbooks** and then select an incident to view the following details:

- Incident name
- A link icon to open the corresponding incident channel
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- The commander, including profile picture and username
- A prompt to `export the incident channel <#exporting-channels>`_
- The total duration

> - The number of members involved at the time the incident started

Reviewer: @justinegeffen what I meant here is that the number you see in the Incident Details is the current number of members in the incident channel. So if you open the details the following day and someone has left the channel in the meantime, you will see that the number has decreased. Sorry for the misunderstanding, I re-read my comment and it was a bit confusing! As a further clarification, I'd say something like the following:
```suggestion
- The number of members currently involved in the incident
```

    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that removed the item."
    "Checklist item renamed.", "- Any user edit the contents of a checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item was.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that removed the item."
    "Checklist item moved.", "- Any user moves the position of a checklist item in the list through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that edited the item."
    "Unchecked checklist item checked.", "- Any user checks an unchecked checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that checked the item."
    "Checked checklist item unchecked.", "- Any user unchecks a checked checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.

>     - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that checked the item."

Author: ```suggestion
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that unchecked the item."
```

    - ``TotalChecklistItems``: Number of checklist items, among all checklists, this playbook has after the update."
     "Playbook deleted.", "- Any user clicks on the ``Delete`` button next to a playbook on the Backstage and confirms.", "
    - ``PlaybookID``: Unique identifier of the playbook.
    - ``TeamID``: Unique identifier of the team where the playbook was located.
    - ``NumChecklists``: Number of checklists this playbook had immediately prior to deletion.
    - ``TotalChecklistItems``: Number of checklist items, among all checklists, this playbook had immediately prior to deletion."
    
    
Glossary
^^^^^^^^

* **Incident**: An event requiring the coordinated actions of one or more Mattermost users. An incident is either ongoing or closed.
* **Playbook**: A set of steps to execute as part of resolving an incident. It consists of one or more checklists, with each checklist item representing a single step.
* **Commander**: The Mattermost user currently responsible for transitioning an incident from ongoing to closed.
* **Incident channel**: A Mattermost channel dedicated to real-time conversation about the incident.

> * **Incident member**: A Mattermost user with access to the corresponding incident channel.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Incident participant**: A Mattermost user with access to the corresponding incident channel.
```

=====================
DevOps Command Center
=====================

.. contents:: Contents
  :backlinks: top
  :local:
  :depth: 2

Overview
^^^^^^^

Incident Response is a Mattermost plugin designed to help organizations monitor, coordinate, and measure their incident response processes, increasing transparency, maximizing effectiveness, and ultimately saving costs by cutting down time taken to respond and resolve incidents.

User's Guide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Incidents are events within Mattermost that are initiated to manage a specific situation/response in real-time. When the situation/response is complete, the incident is ended. Events that occurred within the incident can be reused in future incidents as playbooks and checklists.

Starting incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The incident channel is the central place for discussion related to the incident. You can start an incident in one of three ways:

- Use the slash command */incident start* from any channel.
- Select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu in the channel header.
- Use the context menu of a post and select **Start incident**.

> When you create an incident, the name provided is applied to the new incident channel that is created. The channel name can be used to search for the channel, and is also the name appended to the archived file. You can also select an optional playbook. If a playbook is selected, the corresponding checklist is used as a template to start the incident. If no playbook is selected, the incident starts with an empty checklist.

Author: ```suggestion
When you create an incident, the name provided is applied to the new incident channel that is created. You can also select an optional playbook. 

- If a playbook is selected, a corresponding checklist is used as a template to start the incident. 
- If no playbook is selected, the incident starts with an empty checklist.
```

> When you create an incident, the name provided is applied to the new incident channel that is created. The channel name can be used to search for the channel, and is also the name appended to the archived file. You can also select an optional playbook. If a playbook is selected, the corresponding checklist is used as a template to start the incident. If no playbook is selected, the incident starts with an empty checklist.

Author: I agree. I reworded it because it was a bit too verbose. And I separated the two playbook options.

When an incident has started and the incident channel is created, a message from the incident bot is posted to the incident channel naming the creator of the incident. If an incident is started from the context of a post, the text of the post is posted to the channel along with a permalink.

Incidents are displayed in the RHS are visible to all members of the relevant team, even if they are not a member of the corresponding incident channel. It is not possible to view incidents from teams other than the currently selected team.

Using playbooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Playbooks are templates which are applied to an incident and define a set of steps to be followed in order to resolve the incident. Playbooks can be refined over a period of time to match the changing parameters of future related incidents.

The set of steps contained within a playbook is called a checklist.

Viewing and creating playbooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu in the channel header to open the RHS panel. Select the **Playbooks** icon to open the playbooks backstage and list all playbooks associated with the current team. Select **+ New Playbook** to start a new playbook and checklist. Enter a playbook name and choose **Save Playbook**.

Author: ```suggestion
Select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu, or **!** in the channel header to open the RHS panel. Select the **Playbooks** icon to open the playbooks backstage and list all playbooks associated with the current team. Select **+ New Playbook** to start a new playbook and checklist. Enter a playbook name and choose **Save Playbook**.
```

Editing checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add steps and edit checklist items during an active incident. You can also edit checklist items in playbooks that are not being used in active incidents. 

To edit a checklist, choose **Edit**.

- Select the text field to edit the item details. 
- Hover over an input box and select the **X** to remove the checklist item.
- Drag the hamburger menu to rearrange the checklist items.

Choose **Done** to save the changes.

Ending incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two ways to end an incident:

- Using slash command */incident end* from within the incident channel.
- Using the **End Incident** button in the RHS panel while in the incident channel.

The incident will become inactive, be removed from the list of active incidents, and the associated channel will be archived.

Administrator's Guide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Incidents and playbooks are associated with teams in Mattermost. Participants can be added by inviting them to the incident's channel. 

> To view incidents associated with your Mattermost team, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu in the channel header to open the RHS menu. If there are no active incidents, you can start one or you can view details of incidents that have ended.

Author: ```suggestion
To view incidents associated with your Mattermost team, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu, or **!** in the channel header to open the RHS menu. If there are no active incidents, you can start one or you can view details of incidents that have ended.
```

Incidents Backstage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To open the Incidents backstage, which lists all incidents associated with the current team, select **Incidents & Playbooks** from the Main Menu. All incidents for the current team are listed for review with the following details for each incident:

- Name
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- Start Date
- End Date, if ended, otherwise **--**
- Commander

Viewing incident details
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To view details of active incidents, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu in the channel header to open the RHS panel.

Author: ```suggestion
To view details of active incidents, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu, or **!** in the channel header to open the RHS panel.
```

Listed incidents include the following information:

- The current commander’s profile picture and username
- Zero or more checklist items
- The channels associated with the incident
- A button to end the incident

> If the incident is active, but in a private channel, you won't be able to see the incident channel name or select **End Incident**. However, the commander name and incident checklist is displayed. If you're a participant in an incident channel, you can modify incident details from within that channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the incident is active, but in a private channel, you won't be able to see the incident channel name or select **End Incident**. However, the commander name and incident checklist are displayed. If you're a participant in an incident channel, you can modify incident details from within that channel.
```

You can view all incidents in the incident Backstage via **Main Menu > Incidents & Playbooks** and then select an incident to view the following details:

- Incident name
- A link icon to open the corresponding incident channel
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- The commander, including profile picture and username
- A prompt to export the incident channel
- The total duration

> - The number of members involved in the incident

Reviewer: I don't remember if this was already discussed here, but right now the number displayed there is the number of channel members at the time the incident details screen was opened, not the total number of members involved at any point of the history of the incident. This will change in the future, of course.

Author: I've updated the wording.

> - The number of members involved in the incident

Author: ```suggestion
- The number of members involved at the time the incident started
```

- The total number of messages displayed includes messages posted by both users and bots (including the incident response bot). It does not include system or ephemeral messages.

**Filtering incidents**

Incidents can be filtered by incident name, commander, and incident status.

**Browsing related channels**

Incident members see a link to the incident channel at the bottom of the incident details. Clicking the channel name navigates to the incident channel. This section is not displayed when the active user is not an incident member.

Exporting channels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your server is licensed for E20, and the channel export plugin is installed and active, navigate to **Main Menu > Incidents & Playbooks**, select an incident, then choose **Export Incident Channel** in the top-right corner to download the contents of the incident channel as a CSV. The file excludes attachments, but includes system messages.

If you have an E20 license but the channel export plugin is not installed, or the plugin is installed but not enabled, it’s not possible to select **Export Incident Channel**.

> You can install and activate the plugin via the `Plugin Marketplace <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/plugins.html#plugin-marketplace>`_.

Reviewer: We cannot right now, as it is still being reviewed for security.

Author: Wondering if we should take this out now and put it back in when security review is complete?

    - ``TotalChecklistItems``: Number of checklist items, among all checklists, this playbook has after the update."
     "Playbook deleted.", "- Any user clicks on the ``Delete`` button next to a playbook on the Backstage and confirms.", "
    - ``PlaybookID``: Unique identifier of the playbook.
    - ``TeamID``: Unique identifier of the team where the playbook was located.
    - ``NumChecklists``: Number of checklists this playbook had immediately prior to deletion.
    - ``TotalChecklistItems``: Number of checklist items, among all checklists, this playbook had immediately prior to deletion."
    
    
Glossary
^^^^^^^^

* **Incident**: An event requiring the coordinated actions of one or more Mattermost users. An incident is either ongoing or closed.
* **Playbook**: A set of steps to execute as part of resolving an incident. It consists of one or more checklists, with each checklist item representing a single step.
* **Commander**: The Mattermost user currently responsible for transitioning an incident from ongoing to closed.
* **Incident channel**: A Mattermost channel dedicated to real-time conversation about the incident.

> * **Incident member**: A Mattermost user with access to the corresponding incident channel.

Author: Should this be "participant"?

Reviewer: I think so. Looks like we are using "channel member" as usual but "incident participant".

The creator of an incident automatically becomes the incident Commander, responsible for managing the incident.

The Commander of the incident can:

- Select a Playbook when starting an incident
- Create checklists
- Invite people to the channel
- Hand over the Commander role to another channel member

To change Commanders, select the current Commander’s name and use the search bar to locate the username of the new Commander. Only members of the channel may be selected as commanders. To assign a Commander who is not in the channel, that user must first be invited to the channel using the existing Mattermost user interface (**Manage Members** in the channel header, or the */invite* slash command). Changing the Commander takes effect immediately, and members are notified of the change in the channel.

Active incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To view details about active incidents, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu in the channel header to open the right-hand side (RHS) panel and list of current active incidents. Select an incident to see its Commander, channel, and checklist.

Reviewer 2: The "Plugin menu" may or may not exist, depending on what version you are running. I'd suggest just pointing out the `**!**` button in the channel header for the right context.

Author: Thinking of wording it like this: "select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu, or **!** in the channel header" but wondering if it's too verbose. I know I couldn't find the **!** in the channel header immediately, hence the inclusion of plugin menu.

> When an incident has started and the incident channel is created, the channel header is updated to reflect its origin and

Reviewer 2: nit: This is obviously from the technical design, but is this the level of detail we want in the manual? Wondering if a breakdown of the functionality is the right approach to document this for an enduser.

Editing checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add steps and edit checklist items during an active incident. You can also edit checklist items in Playbooks that are not being used in active incidents. 

To edit a checklist, choose **Edit**.

- Select the text field to edit the item details. 
- Hover over an input box and select the **X** to remove the checklist item.
- Drag the hamburger menu to rearrange the checklist items.

Choose **Done** to save the changes.

Ending incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two ways to end an incident:

- Using slash command */incident end* from within the incident channel.
- Using the **End Incident** button in the RHS panel while in the incident channel.

The incident will become inactive, be removed from the list of active incidents, and the associated channel will be archived.

Administrator's Guide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Incidents and Playbooks are associated with teams in Mattermost, and permissions are assigned based on the Permission scheme used in Mattermost. Incidents are directly tied to a specific team and channel.

> Public incidents

Reviewer 2: Note that public/private isn't actually part of the release v0.4. Apologies for how the design doc tackles this, since it's a mixture of current and upcoming functionality. Not sure if we want to focus on v0.4 functionality only, where all incident channels are private?

Author: Gotcha. This doc should be aligned with the current release so this section can be removed until 0.5.

Private incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Private incidents are invite-only. Participants can be added by inviting them to the incident's primary channel. Like private channels, private incidents do not appear on the incident list of users who are not participants.

To view incidents associated with your Mattermost team, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu in the channel header to open the RHS menu. If there are no active incidents, you can start one or you can view incident logs.

Incidents Backstage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To open the Incidents backstage, which lists all incidents associated with the current team, select **Incidents & Playbooks** from the Main Menu. All incidents for the current team are listed for review with the following details for each incident:

- Name
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- Start Date
- End Date, if ended, otherwise **--**
- Commander

> All dates are rendered as per the location and timezone of the active user.

Reviewer 2: nit: This /seems/ like the kind of detail that belongs in the design doc, but is irrelevant for an enduser. (Unless it /didn't/ render in the expected timezone.)

- The total number of messages displayed includes messages posted by both users and bots (including the incident response bot). It does not include system or ephemeral messages.

**Filtering incidents**

Incidents can be filtered by incident name, Commander, and incident status.

**Browsing related channels**

Incident members see a link to the incident channel at the bottom of the incident details. Clicking the channel name navigates to the incident channel. This section is not displayed when the active user is not an incident member.

Exporting channels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your server is licensed for E20, and the channel export plugin is installed and active, navigate to **Main Menu > Incidents & Playbooks**, select an incident, then choose **Export Incident Channel** in the top-right corner to download the contents of the incident channel as a CSV. The file excludes attachments, but includes system messages.

If you have an E20 license but the channel export plugin is not installed, or the plugin is installed but not enabled, it’s not possible to select **Export Incident Channel**.

> To install and activate the plugin, navigate to the plugins menu and follow the steps provided.

Reviewer 2: What is the "plugins menu" in this context? Wondering if we should just say "install the plugin from the private beta marketplace" for now.

Author: Thanks for picking this up, I'd meant to comment on this as I realized I don't know the steps to install/activate the plugin and needed to confirm with you. Are there specific steps for that, or can it be done via the Main Menu > Download Apps?

Reviewer 2: Let's rely on / link to https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/plugins.html#plugin-marketplace to drive plugin installation.

    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that removed the item."
    "Checklist item renamed.", "- Any user edit the contents of a checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item was.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that removed the item."
    "Checklist item moved.", "- Any user moves the position of a checklist item in the list through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that edited the item."
    "Unchecked checklist item checked.", "- Any user checks an unchecked checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that checked the item."
    "Checked checklist item unchecked.", "- Any user unchecks a checked checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.

>     - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that checked the item."

Author: @agarciamontoro, is this meant to be "checked" or "unchecked"?

Reviewer: Oopsie, it should be unchecked! Good catch, because I worded this quite confusingly!

=====================
DevOps Command Center
=====================

.. contents:: Contents
  :backlinks: top
  :local:
  :depth: 2

Overview
^^^^^^^

> Workplace messaging is often process-driven rather than completely ad-hoc, and these processes could be organizationally critical in crisis situations. Help

Author: Good catch. I've removed that paragraph entirely.

teams collaborate to solve problems that are time-sensitive, recurring, situational.

Incident Response is a Mattermost plugin designed to help organizations monitor, coordinate,
and measure their incident response processes, increasing transparency, maximizing effectiveness, and ultimately saving costs by cutting down time taken to respond and resolve incidents.

User's Guide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Incidents are events within Mattermost that are initiated to manage a specific situation/response in real-time. When the situation/response is complete, the incident is ended.

> Incident details are stored as logs, and events that occurred within the incident can be reused in future incidents as Playbooks and checklists.

Author: Thanks, @lieut-data. I suspect "logs" was my inference and not from any documentation provided. I've reviewed the content and it definitely isn't accurate so I've made some changes. That said, happy to discuss this holistically as suggested below to ensure I'm on the same page as you. :)

> Incident details are stored as logs, and events that occurred within the incident can be reused in future incidents as Playbooks and checklists.

Author: To add to that ^^ it's meant to describe the collective artifacts of an incident.

Starting incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The incident channel is the central place for discussion related to the incident. You can start an incident in one of three ways:

- Use the slash command */incident start* from any channel.

> - Use the message actions dropdown menu and select **Start incident**.

Author: Agreed; changed.

- Use the context menu of a post and select **Start incident**.

When you create an incident, the name provided is applied to the new incident channel that is created. You can also select an optional Playbook. The channel name can be used to

> search for the channel, and is also the name appended to the archived logs. If a Playbook is selected,

Author: No problem at all, thanks for picking it up. I've edited this.

the corresponding checklist is used as a template to start the incident. If no Playbook is selected, the incident starts with an empty checklist.

> The creator of an incident automatically becomes the incident Commander, responsible for managing the incident.

Author: Great question. I'm 4/5 for lowercase "incident" and lowercase "playbook". I'm 0/5 as to whether "Commander" should stay as-is.

> The creator of an incident automatically becomes the incident Commander, responsible for managing the incident.

Reviewer 2: :+1: for lowercasing `incident ` and `playbook`. I'd be inclined to lowercase `commander` as well -- for now. We're actively revisiting all of these terms anyway.

> The creator of an incident automatically becomes the incident Commander, responsible for managing the incident.

Author: I'm on board with that.

The Commander of the incident can:

> - Select Playbooks

Author: ```suggestion
- Select a Playbooks when starting an incident
```

active incidents. Select an incident to see its Commander, channel, and checklist.

When an incident has started and the incident channel is created, the channel header is updated to reflect its origin and
a message from the incident bot is also posted to the incident channel naming the creator of the incident. If an incident is started
from the context of a post, the channel header includes a link to the post and the text of the post is also posted to the channel alongside a permalink.

Incidents are displayed in the RHS and visible to all members of the relevant team, even if they are not a member of the corresponding incident channel. It
is not possible to view incidents from teams other than the currently selected team.

Using Playbooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Playbooks are templates which are applied to an incident and define a set of steps to be followed in order to resolve the incident. Playbooks can be
refined over a period of time to match the changing parameters of future related incidents.

The set of steps contained within a Playbook is called a checklist.

Viewing and creating Playbooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Select the Playbooks icon **()** in the RHS to open the Playbooks backstage and list all Playbooks associated with the current team.

Author: ```suggestion
Select the Playbooks icon in the RHS to open the Playbooks backstage and list all Playbooks associated with the current team.
```

> Select the Playbooks icon **()** in the RHS to open the Playbooks backstage and list all Playbooks associated with the current team.

Author: ```suggestion
Select **! Incidents** from the channel header to open the RHS panel. Select the Playbooks icon to open the Playbooks backstage and list all Playbooks associated with the current team.
```

Select **+ New Playbook** to start a new Playbook and checklist. Enter a Playbook name and choose **Save Playbook**.

Creating checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Checklists are created within a Playbook and provide steps to follow during an incident. Checklists can be created ahead of time as part of a Playbook, or during an incident.

Editing checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Checklists can be edited during an incident as well as when not associated with an active incident.

Author: ```suggestion
You can add steps and edit checklist items during an active incident. You can also edit checklist items in Playbooks that are not being used in active incidents. 
```

Starting incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The incident channel is the central place for discussion related to the incident. You can start an incident in one of three ways:

- Use the slash command */incident start* from any channel.
- Use the message actions dropdown menu and select **Start incident**.
- Use the context menu of a post and select **Start incident**.

When you create an incident, the name provided is applied to the new incident channel that is created. You can also select an optional Playbook. The channel name can be used to
search for the channel, and is also the name appended to the archived logs. If a Playbook is selected,
the corresponding checklist is used as a template to start the incident. If no Playbook is selected, the incident starts with an empty checklist.

The creator of an incident automatically becomes the incident Commander, responsible for managing the incident.

The Commander of the incident can:

- Select Playbooks
- Create checklists
- Invite people to the channel
- Hand over the Commander role to another channel member

> The Commander of the channel must be a team/channel admin, and if the role is handed to another member they must also be a team/channel admin. To change Commanders,

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether the commander of the channel (the current one or the new one) must be a team/channel admin or not.

Author: I've tested this and it doesn't look like that's the case so I've edited this, thank you!

Active incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To view details about active incidents, click the **!** icon in the channel header to bring up the right-hand side (RHS) panel that shows a list of current
active incidents. Select an incident to see its Commander, channel, and checklist.

When an incident has started and the incident channel is created, the channel header is updated to reflect its origin and
a message from the incident bot is also posted to the incident channel naming the creator of the incident. If an incident is started
from the context of a post, the channel header includes a link to the post and the text of the post is also posted to the channel alongside a permalink.

Incidents are displayed in the RHS and visible to all members of the relevant team, even if they are not a member of the corresponding incident channel. It
is not possible to view incidents from teams other than the currently selected team.

Using Playbooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Playbooks are templates which are applied to an incident and define a set of steps to be followed in order to resolve the incident. Playbooks can be

> refined over a period of time to match the changing parameters of related incidents.

Reviewer: I'd add here some mention that the changes affect only future incidents, not the ones started from this playbook.
```suggestion
refined over a period of time to match the changing parameters of future related incidents.
```

The set of steps contained within a Playbook is called a checklist.

Viewing and creating Playbooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Select the Playbooks icon **()** in the RHS to open the Playbooks backstage and list all Playbooks associated with the current team.

Reviewer: There is no icon here. Is that intended?

Author: Good catch - I'm going to add a screenshot for this but the placeholder needs to be removed or elaborated on.

Select **+ New Playbook** to start a new Playbook and checklist. Enter a Playbook name and choose **Save Playbook**.

Creating checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Checklists are created within a Playbook and provide steps to follow during an incident. Checklists can be created ahead of time as part of a Playbook, or during an incident.

Editing checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Checklists can be edited during an incident as well as when not associated with an active incident.

Reviewer: I did not understand well the last part of this sentence. Do you mean checklists in playbooks?

> To edit a checklist, choose **Edit**.
> - Hover over an input box and select the **X** to remove the checklist item.
> - Drag the hamburger menu to rearrange the checklist items.

Reviewer: This does not render as a list. Is a new line missing?
```suggestion
To edit a checklist, choose **Edit**.

- Hover over an input box and select the **X** to remove the checklist item.
- Drag the hamburger menu to rearrange the checklist items.
```

Reviewer: And maybe we can also add that we can reword the text in the items? 0/5

Choose **Done** to save the changes.

Ending incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two ways to end an incident:

- Using slash command */incident end* from within the incident channel.
- Using the **End Incident** button in the RHS panel while in the incident channel.

> The incident will become inactive, be removed from the list of active incidents, and the associated channel is archived.

Reviewer: Nit over 9000: should be `the associated channel will be archived.`?

Administrator's Guide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Incidents and Playbooks are associated with teams in Mattermost, and permissions are assigned based on the Permission scheme used in Mattermost. Incidents
are directly tied to a specific team and channel.

Public incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Public incidents are incidents where anyone with access to the team the incident channel is created on can join the incident as a participant by joining the channel
the incident is in. Anyone on the team can join the primary channel and become an incident participant. Just like public channels, public incidents appear for everyone
in the team they are created in.

Private incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Private incidents are invite-only. Participants can be added by inviting them to the incident's primary channel. Like private channels, private incidents do not appear on
the incident list of users who are not participants.

> To view incidents associated with your Mattermost team, select the **Incidents** icon in the channel header to open the RHS menu. If there are no active incidents, you can

Reviewer: We used `the **!** icon in the channel header` before, so maybe we should keep that consistent here?

start one or you can view incident logs.

Incidents Backstage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To open the Incidents backstage Select **Incidents & Playbooks** from the Main Menu , which lists all incidents associated with the current team. This main menu item is available to all Mattermost users.

All incidents for the current team are listed for review with the following details for each incident:

- Name
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- Start Date

> - End Date, if ended, otherwise **--**

Reviewer: We just changed this to `Start time` and `End time` [here](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-incident-response/pull/136), although it looks like it will ship in v0.5.

Author: Thanks, I've noted that down for future iteration. :)

- Commander

All dates are rendered as per the locale and timezone of the active user.

Viewing incident details
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To view details of active incidents, select **Incidents** from the plugin menu to open the RHS panel.

Reviewer: The same comment as above: are we referring here to the **!** icon?

Listed incidents include the following information:

- The current Commander’s profile picture and username
- Zero or more checklist items
- The channels associated with the incident
- A button to end the incident

If the incident is active, but in a private channel, you won't be able to see the incident channel name or select **End Incident**. However, the Commander name and incident

> checlist will be visible. If you're a participant in an incident channel, you can modify incident details from within that channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checklist will be visible. If you're a participant in an incident channel, you can modify incident details from within that channel.
```

You can view all incidents in the incident Backstage via **Main Menu > Incidents & Playbooks**.

Select an incident to view:

- Incident name
- A link icon to open the corresponding incident channel
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- The Commander, including profile picture and username
- A prompt to export the incident channel
- The total duration
- The number of members involved in the incident

> - The number of messages posted to the channel, including another prompt to open the corresponding incident channel

Reviewer: Should we add a mention here to the cool graph?

Author: Yes, absolutely. :)

Author: I've added it below. I'm not sure if one line sufficiently describes the chart's functionality, so it needs expansion.

The **Duration** widget displays the duration of the incident. While the incident is ongoing, the end time is displayed as **Ongoing**. When the incident has ended, it
shows the end time (in the user's timezone). The **Members Involved** widget indicates the total number of users that participated in the channel, either

> by posting a message, being assigned as Commander, or interacting with a checklist. This number is not affected by users leaving the channel, or users joining the channel but not participating.

Reviewer: This is not true right now, but it will be soon(ish).

Author: How soon-ish? :) Should I hold off on this until that release or publish now and then update?

then choose **Export Incident Channel** in the top-right corner to download the contents of the incident channel as a CSV. The file excludes attachments, but includes system messages.
If you have an E20 license but the channel export plugin is not installed, or the plugin is installed but not enabled, it’s not possible to select **Export Incident Channel**.

To install and activate the plugin, navigate to the plugins menu and follow the steps provided.

Telemetry
^^^^^^^^^^

During beta early access, events for the Incident Response plugin are collected regardless of the server telemetry configuration. In other words, even if
telemetry is disabled in your Mattermost server, the information described on this page is still collected.

We only track the events that create, delete or update any items. We never track the specific content of the items. In particular, we
do not collect the name of the incidents or the contents of the checklist items.

Every event we track is accompanied with metadata that help us identify each event and isolate it from the rest of the servers. We can group all

> events that are coming from a single server, but never identify that server. The following list details the metadata that accompanies every event:

Reviewer: I need to change this in the Confluence page, I realized it is not true. It will get published with the rest of the changes for 0.4

Author: I've updated the doc with the new content, thanks! :)

    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item was.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that removed the item."
    "Checklist item moved.", "- Any user moves the position of a checklist item in the list through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that edited the item."
    "Unchecked checklist item checked.", "- Any user checks an unchecked checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that checked the item."
    "Checked checklist item unchecked.", "- Any user unchecks a checked checklist item through the incident details view, in the RHS.", "
    - ``IncidentID``: Unique identifier of the incident where the item is.
    - ``UserID``: Unique identifier of the user that checked the item."
    
Glossary
^^^^^^^^

* **Incident**: An event requiring the coordinated actions of one or more Mattermost users. An incident is either ongoing or closed.

> * **Playbook**: A a set of steps to execute as part of resolving an incident. It consists of one or more checklists, with each checklist item representing a single step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Playbook**: A set of steps to execute as part of resolving an incident. It consists of one or more checklists, with each checklist item representing a single step.
```

* **Commander**: The Mattermost user currently responsible for transitioning an incident from ongoing to closed.
* **Incident channel**: A Mattermost channel dedicated to real-time conversation about the incident.
* **Incident member**: A Mattermost user with access to the corresponding incident channel.

> * **The RHS**: The incident list and incident details displayed on the right hand side of the webapp. Clicking an incident from the list in the RHS surfaces details of the
> selected incident. It is not available on mobile.

Reviewer: This new line is being rendered as a new line, breaking the list. Weird.
```suggestion
* **The RHS**: The incident list and incident details displayed on the right hand side of the webapp. Clicking an incident from the list in the RHS surfaces details of the selected incident. It is not available on mobile.
```

Select **+ New Playbook** to start a new Playbook and checklist. Enter a Playbook name and choose **Save Playbook**.

Creating checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Checklists are created within a Playbook and provide steps to follow during an incident. Checklists can be created ahead of time as part of a Playbook, or during an incident.

Editing checklists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add steps and edit checklist items during an active incident. You can also edit checklist items in Playbooks that are not being used in active incidents. 

To edit a checklist, choose **Edit**.

- Select the text field to edit the item details. 
- Hover over an input box and select the **X** to remove the checklist item.
- Drag the hamburger menu to rearrange the checklist items.

Choose **Done** to save the changes.

Ending incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two ways to end an incident:

- Using slash command */incident end* from within the incident channel.
- Using the **End Incident** button in the RHS panel while in the incident channel.

> The incident will become inactive, be removed from the list of active incidents, and the associated channel is archived.

Author: ```suggestion
The incident will become inactive, be removed from the list of active incidents, and the associated channel will be archived.
```

Administrator's Guide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Incidents and Playbooks are associated with teams in Mattermost, and permissions are assigned based on the Permission scheme used in Mattermost. Incidents
are directly tied to a specific team and channel.

Public incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Public incidents are incidents where anyone with access to the team the incident channel is created on can join the incident as a participant by joining the channel
the incident is in. Anyone on the team can join the primary channel and become an incident participant. Just like public channels, public incidents appear for everyone
in the team they are created in.

Private incidents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Private incidents are invite-only. Participants can be added by inviting them to the incident's primary channel. Like private channels, private incidents do not appear on
the incident list of users who are not participants.

> To view incidents associated with your Mattermost team, select the **Incidents** icon in the channel header to open the RHS menu. If there are no active incidents, you can

Author: ```suggestion
To view incidents associated with your Mattermost team, select **! Incidents** in the channel header to open the RHS menu. If there are no active incidents, you can
```

start one or you can view incident logs.

Incidents Backstage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To open the Incidents backstage Select **Incidents & Playbooks** from the Main Menu , which lists all incidents associated with the current team. This main menu item is available to all Mattermost users.

All incidents for the current team are listed for review with the following details for each incident:

- Name
- Status (**Ongoing** or **Ended**)
- Start Date
- End Date, if ended, otherwise **--**
- Commander

All dates are rendered as per the locale and timezone of the active user.

Viewing incident details
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To view details of active incidents, select **Incidents** from the plugin menu to open the RHS panel.

Author: ```suggestion
To view details of active incidents, select **! Incidents** from the plugin menu to open the RHS panel.
```
